_docs/00-getting-started.md, before:

---
docid: getting-started
title: Getting started with Infer
layout: docs
permalink: /docs/getting-started.html
---

## Install Infer on Mac

You'll need [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/). Simply type this into a terminal:

```sh
brew install infer
```

If you get the following error...

```sh
Error: No available formula for infer 
Searching taps...
homebrew/science/infernal
```
... Then you must run this command first:

```sh
brew update
```
And wait a few minutes, and then run `brew install infer`. More info [here](https://github.com/facebook/infer/issues/36).

## Install Infer on Linux

Follow the [install from source](docs/getting-started.html#install-from-source) instructions below to install Infer on your system. Alternatively, use our [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/) image:

```sh
wget -O Dockerfile https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebook/infer/master/docker/Dockerfile
wget -O run.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebook/infer/master/docker/run.sh
sh run.sh
```

## Try Infer in your browser

Try Infer on a small example on [Codeboard](https://codeboard.io/projects/11587?view=2.1-21.0-22.0).

## Install from source

We recommend that you start from our latest [GitHub release](https://github.com/facebook/infer/releases/latest), which contains a pre-compiled version of clang, used for our C/Objective-C analyzers.

You'll need to first install the [build dependencies](https://github.com/facebook/infer/blob/master/INSTALL.md#pre-compiled-versions), then run the following commands:

```sh
tar xf infer-<release>.tar.xz
cd infer-<release>/
./build-infer.sh
make install
```

Commit message:

[getting started] update docs to point at binary releases

_docs/00-getting-started.md, after:

---
docid: getting-started
title: Getting started with Infer
layout: docs
permalink: /docs/getting-started.html
---

## Get Infer

You can use Homebrew (Mac only), our binary releases, build infer from
source, or use our Docker image.

On Mac, the simplest way is to use [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/). Type this into a terminal:

```sh
brew install infer
```

On Linux, or if you do not wish to use Homebrew on Mac, use our
latest [binary
release](https://github.com/facebook/infer/releases/latest). Download
the tarball then extract it anywhere on your system to start using
infer. For example, this downloads infer in /opt on Linux (replace
`VERSION` with the latest release, eg `VERSION=0.15.0`):

```sh
VERSION=0.XX.Y \
curl -sSL "https://github.com/facebook/infer/releases/download/v$VERSION/infer-linux64-v$VERSION.tar.xz" \
| sudo tar -C /opt xf && \
ln -s "/opt/infer-linux64-v$VERSION/bin/infer" /usr/local/bin/infer
```

If the binaries do not work for you, or if you would rather build
infer from source, follow the [install from
source](docs/getting-started.html#install-from-source) instructions
below to install Infer on your system.

Alternatively, use our
[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/) image:

```sh
wget -O Dockerfile https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebook/infer/master/docker/Dockerfile
wget -O run.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebook/infer/master/docker/run.sh
sh run.sh
```

## Try Infer in your browser

Try Infer on a small example on [Codeboard](https://codeboard.io/projects/11587?view=2.1-21.0-22.0).

## Install from source

Follow our guide in
[INSTALL.md](https://github.com/facebook/infer/blob/master/INSTALL.md#install-infer-from-source).
