_docs/01-analyzing-apps-or-projects.md, before:

---
docid: analyzing-apps-or-projects
title: Analyzing apps or projects
layout: docs
permalink: /docs/analyzing-apps-or-projects.html
---

To analyze files with Infer you can use the compilers `javac` and `clang`. You can also use Infer with `gcc`, however, internally Infer will use `clang` to compile your code. So, it may not work if your code does not compile with `clang`.

Moreover, you can run Infer with a variety of build systems. Notice that you can run infer faster by running the compilation command in parallel, e.g. `infer run -- make -j8`.
Please also take into account that if you wish to analyze a project, you should probably do `clean` beforehand so that the compiler compiles all the files and so Infer also analyses all the files (see the [previous section](docs/infer-workflow.html)).

Here is an overview of the build systems supported by Infer. You can
get more information about how a particular build system is supported
by looking at the SYNOPSIS section of the infer-capture manual:
`infer capture --help`.

### ant

```bash
infer run -- ant
```

### Buck

Running:
```bash
infer run -- buck <buck target>
```
will compute the list of Infer warnings in the targets passed as argument.

Running:
```bash
infer run -- buck --deep <buck target>
```
will compute the list of Infer warnings in the targets passed as argument and all the transitive dependencies.

The distinction between `--deep` and the normal Buck complation mode is only supported for Java projects. For the other kinds of projects, the `--deep` option has no effect.

### cmake

The most robust way is to have `cmake` generate a compilation database
that can be then processed by Infer:

```bash
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=1 ..
cd ..
infer run --compilation-database build/compile_commands.json
```

Alternatively, one can trick `cmake` into using infer instead of the system's compilers:

```bash
cd build
infer compile -- cmake ..
infer run -- make -j 4
```


### Gradle

```bash
infer run -- gradle <gradle task, e.g. "build">
infer run -- ./gradlew <gradle task, e.g. "build">
```

### Make

Infer can analyze projects that compile with `make` by switching the
compilers (for C/C++/Objective-C or Java) called by `make` with infer
wrappers. This doesn't always work, for instance if the Makefiles
hardcode the absolute paths to the compilers (eg, if `make` calls
`/usr/bin/gcc` instead of `gcc`). This is because this integration
works by modifying `PATH` under the hood.

```bash
infer run -- make <make target>
```

### Maven

```bash
infer run -- mvn <maven target>
```

### Xcodebuild

The most robust way is to generate a compilation database, then pass that database to Infer:

```bash
xcodebuild <your build options> | tee xcodebuild.log
xcpretty -r json-compilation-database -o compile_commands.json < xcodebuild.log > /dev/null
infer run --skip-analysis-in-path Pods --clang-compilation-db-files-escaped compile_commands.json
```

See also [this comment on GitHub](https://github.com/facebook/infer/issues/9#issuecomment-280121791).

Infer also provides a direct integration to xcodebuild that swaps the
compiler used by xcodebuild under the hood. For instance, for an iOS
app:

```bash
infer run -- xcodebuild -target <target name> -configuration <build configuration> -sdk iphonesimulator
```

There is an alternative xcodebuild integration that uses `xcpretty`
under the hood; use it by passing `--xcpretty` to infer.

### xctool

Use `xctool` to generate a compilation database then pass it to infer:

```bash
xctool.sh <your build options> -reporter json-compilation-database:compile_commands.json
infer run --skip-analysis-in-path Pods --clang-compilation-db-files-escaped compile_commands.json
```

See also [this comment on GitHub](https://github.com/facebook/infer/issues/9#issuecomment-280121791).


### Using a compilation database

Many build systems like cmake, Xcode or Buck generate compilation databases. infer is able to use this database directly, simplifying its usage.

```bash
infer --compilation-database compile_commands.json
```

### Other build systems

If infer doesn't recognize your build system, you will get an error like this:

```console
$ infer run -- foo
Usage Error: Unsupported build command foo
```

If your build system behaves like one of the above, you can tell infer to use the same integration with `--force-integration`. For instance this will proceed as if `foo` was working the same way as `make`:

```bash
infer run --force-integration make -- foo
```

If your build system is more exotic, and it doesn't support outputting
compilation databases, please let us know by [opening an
issue](https://github.com/facebook/infer/issues/new).

Commit message:

Clarify command for gradle + Android Studio
* The user must cd into the folder that contains 'gradlew' first, then run the command, otherwise it will not work.
* Explain that `./gradlew clean` normally needs to run first, otherwise error.
* Explain that the gradle flag `--rerun-tasks` can be used instead of clean, which is more convenient to deleting built binaries.
* Use `assembleDebug` command instead of `build`, to avoid building all flavors/variants in both debug and release mode.

_docs/01-analyzing-apps-or-projects.md, after:

---
docid: analyzing-apps-or-projects
title: Analyzing apps or projects
layout: docs
permalink: /docs/analyzing-apps-or-projects.html
---

To analyze files with Infer you can use the compilers `javac` and `clang`. You can also use Infer with `gcc`, however, internally Infer will use `clang` to compile your code. So, it may not work if your code does not compile with `clang`.

Moreover, you can run Infer with a variety of build systems. Notice that you can run infer faster by running the compilation command in parallel, e.g. `infer run -- make -j8`.
Please also take into account that if you wish to analyze a project, you should probably do `clean` beforehand so that the compiler compiles all the files and so Infer also analyses all the files (see the [previous section](docs/infer-workflow.html)).

Here is an overview of the build systems supported by Infer. You can
get more information about how a particular build system is supported
by looking at the SYNOPSIS section of the infer-capture manual:
`infer capture --help`.

### ant

```bash
infer run -- ant
```

### Buck

Running:
```bash
infer run -- buck <buck target>
```
will compute the list of Infer warnings in the targets passed as argument.

Running:
```bash
infer run -- buck --deep <buck target>
```
will compute the list of Infer warnings in the targets passed as argument and all the transitive dependencies.

The distinction between `--deep` and the normal Buck complation mode is only supported for Java projects. For the other kinds of projects, the `--deep` option has no effect.

### cmake

The most robust way is to have `cmake` generate a compilation database
that can be then processed by Infer:

```bash
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=1 ..
cd ..
infer run --compilation-database build/compile_commands.json
```

Alternatively, one can trick `cmake` into using infer instead of the system's compilers:

```bash
cd build
infer compile -- cmake ..
infer run -- make -j 4
```


### Gradle / Android

Normally, you would need to do a clean build first, otherwise infer will
complain with error: `"Nothing to compile. Try cleaning the build first."`
However, cleaning the build will delete all of your built binaries, which is
inconvenient, so use the flag
[`--rerun-tasks`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7289874/resetting-the-up-to-date-property-of-gradle-tasks)
to force a gradle rebuild instead.

```bash
cd MyAndroidApp/folder_that_contains_gradlew
infer run -- ./gradlew assembleDebug --rerun-tasks
infer run -- gradle <gradle task, e.g. "build">
```

### Make

Infer can analyze projects that compile with `make` by switching the
compilers (for C/C++/Objective-C or Java) called by `make` with infer
wrappers. This doesn't always work, for instance if the Makefiles
hardcode the absolute paths to the compilers (eg, if `make` calls
`/usr/bin/gcc` instead of `gcc`). This is because this integration
works by modifying `PATH` under the hood.

```bash
infer run -- make <make target>
```

### Maven

```bash
infer run -- mvn <maven target>
```

### Xcodebuild

The most robust way is to generate a compilation database, then pass that database to Infer:

```bash
xcodebuild <your build options> | tee xcodebuild.log
xcpretty -r json-compilation-database -o compile_commands.json < xcodebuild.log > /dev/null
infer run --skip-analysis-in-path Pods --clang-compilation-db-files-escaped compile_commands.json
```

See also [this comment on GitHub](https://github.com/facebook/infer/issues/9#issuecomment-280121791).

Infer also provides a direct integration to xcodebuild that swaps the
compiler used by xcodebuild under the hood. For instance, for an iOS
app:

```bash
infer run -- xcodebuild -target <target name> -configuration <build configuration> -sdk iphonesimulator
```

There is an alternative xcodebuild integration that uses `xcpretty`
under the hood; use it by passing `--xcpretty` to infer.

### xctool

Use `xctool` to generate a compilation database then pass it to infer:

```bash
xctool.sh <your build options> -reporter json-compilation-database:compile_commands.json
infer run --skip-analysis-in-path Pods --clang-compilation-db-files-escaped compile_commands.json
```

See also [this comment on GitHub](https://github.com/facebook/infer/issues/9#issuecomment-280121791).


### Using a compilation database

Many build systems like cmake, Xcode or Buck generate compilation databases. infer is able to use this database directly, simplifying its usage.

```bash
infer --compilation-database compile_commands.json
```

### Other build systems

If infer doesn't recognize your build system, you will get an error like this:

```console
$ infer run -- foo
Usage Error: Unsupported build command foo
```

If your build system behaves like one of the above, you can tell infer to use the same integration with `--force-integration`. For instance this will proceed as if `foo` was working the same way as `make`:

```bash
infer run --force-integration make -- foo
```

If your build system is more exotic, and it doesn't support outputting
compilation databases, please let us know by [opening an
issue](https://github.com/facebook/infer/issues/new).
